+++
title = 'Looking Back on 2023'
date = 2023-12-13T23:09:31Z
draft = false
+++

What a year! I started off this year knowing very little about Openstack, Ansible and Terraform to presenting at the **Computing Insight 2023** conference on the topic of **Automated Deployment of Manufacturing Use-Cases through Openstack HPC**. This demonstrated how we (The Manufacturing Technology Centre) managed to develop a platform that gave our engineers more autonomy via self-service infrastructure, allowing the Informatics and Modelling and Simulation teams to spend less time requesting their compute and more time doing their project work. Since then, I have been looking into additional Openstack services to expand our use of Openstack. Notably, Blazar to give the users more insight into the resources they can request by reserving compute ahead of time as well as the Masakari service which would automatically recover virtual machines that fail.

On the Microsoft Azure front, it has  been a great experience building up a noticable skillset  within Azure AD, App Service, Storage and other aspects of the cloud such as OpenTofu to provision these resources rapidly with good practice. This will be expanded on further in 2024, thanks to upcoming projects in the business being focused on cloud deployment and if needed, I will push for a Kubernetes deployment.

I have set up my own AWS tenant and have so far been using the free services but would like to get more into IAM, VPC, and Lambda to make myself more technology agnostic with RDS, ECS and EKS following later after confidence has been  built within the platform.

Other than the cloud and technology side, I have managed to increase my research skills by writing proposals for manufacturing research, working on a whitepaper for AI/MES integration and reading through papers about cognitive load and trust to determine metrics that can be added to a machine learning model. I never thought I would have a favourite paper but [here we are!](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/324658835_Cognitive_Load_Estimation_in_the_Wild)

In the meantime, while my last working day of the year was on the 7th December, I have been working through **Let's Go** by **Alex Edwards**. It is an excellent book on the Go programming language that reminds me of the model-view-controller (MVC) pattern from when I use to be a using C# and .NET Framework. I have also been working through **Hands-On Machine Learning** by **Aurelien Geron** after it was recommended by a friend's brother. It is very hands on focuses on getting a good grasp of the basics before jumping into any of the complex topics.

In terms of operating system and what I am going to use in 2024, I moved away from my beloved Ubuntu in December 2023 after 3 years and moved to MacOS to try and get a more portable development platform that I can use. So far so good, the M1 hasn't let me down and brew, rectangle and raycast are pretty cool. The only thing I am not a fan of is the Apple Store selling some development apps for £3.99 a pop.

In short for 2024, more Openstack, Azure, AWS, OpenTofu, Go and Kubernetes! 
